9 October 1794, Journal entry

On the 9th. William Findley and David Redick--deputed by the Committee of Safety
(as it is designated) which met on the 2d. of this month at Parkinson Ferry
arrived in Camp with the Resolutions of the said Committee; and to give
information of the State of things in the four Western Counties of Pennsylvania
to wit--Washington Fayette Westd. & Alligany in order to see if it would prevent
the March of the Army into them.

At 10 oclock I had a meeting with these persons in presence of Govr. Howell (of
New Jersey) the Secretary of the Treasury, Colo. Hamilton, & Mr. Dandridge:
Govr. Mifflin was invited to be present, but excused himself on acct. of
business.

I told the Deputies that by one of the Resolutions it would appear that they
were empowered to give information of the disposition & of the existing state of
matters in the four Counties above men[tioned]; that I was ready to hear & would
listen patiently, and with candour to what they had to say.

Mr. Findley began. He confined his information to such parts of the four
Counties as he was best acquainted with; referring to Mr. Reddick for a recital
of what fell within his knowledge, in the other parts of these Counties.

The substance of Mr. Findleys communications were as follows--viz.--That the
People in the parts where he was best acquainted, had seen there folly; and he
believed were disposed to submit to the Laws; that he thought, but could not
undertake to be responsible, for the re-establishment of the public Offices for
the Collection of the Taxes on distilled spirits, & Stills--intimating however,
that it might be best for the present, & until the peoples minds were a little
more tranquilized, to hold the Office of Inspection at Pitsburgh under the
protection--or at least under the influence of the Garrison; That he thought the
Distillers would either enter their stills or would put them down; That the
Civil authority was beginning to recover its tone; & enumerated some instances
of it; That the ignorance, & general want of information among the people far
exceeded any thing he had any conception of; That it was not merely the excise
law their opposition was aimed at, but to all law, & Government; and to the
Officers of Government; and that the situation in which he had been, & the life
he had led for sometime, was such, that rather than go through it again, he
would prefer quitting this scene altogether.

Mr. Redicks information was similar to the above; except as to the three last
recitals--on wch. I do not recollect that he expressed any sentiment further
than that the situation of those who were not in the opposition to government
whilst the frenzy was at its height, were obliged to sleep with their Arms by
their bed Sides every night; not knowing but that before Morning they might have
occasion to use them in defence of their persons, or their properties.

He added, that for a long time after the riots commenced, and until lately, the
distrust of one another was such, that even friends were affraid to communicate
their sentiments to each other; That by whispers this was brought about; and
growing bolder as they became more communicative they found their strength, and
that there was a general disposition not only to acquiesce under, but to support
the Laws--and he gave some instances also of Magistrates enforcing them.
